's war on Gaza has ented its sixth month
at least
3,717 people have been killed since
October the 7th South Africa has asked
the United Nations Top Court the icj to
impose new emergency orders on Israel to
allow humanitarian Aid into
Gaza joining us now here in studio is
Omar asaw he's a professor of security
and Military studies at the Doan
Institute for Graduate Studies so many
areas to focus on at the moment Omar I
just want to sort of go to um where we
are in terms of the various un officials
and diplomats across Europe assessing
and and having warned Israel of
settlement expansion they announced more
settlment expansion in the last 24 hours
it's like a red rag to a bull Isn't it
to to the Palestinians and to the the
Islamic community to see this happening
when there's also talk of a potential
two-state solution sometime in the
future absolutely it's further uh
insults to injuries and we know 7th of
October uh came uh because of um partly
because of the settlement activities
part partly because of the escalations
in Jerusalem uh and partly because of uh
you know the the the unresolved history
of the of this conflict and uh of course
this is uh is basically taking us into a
similar escalation a similar round of
escalation um so I don't know it it does
not uh it it means that a peaceful
resolution for this conflict is just
getting further and further away if it
will ever be existing various
organizations have called it like a
powder keg waiting to to explode really
there's that much anger in the region
especially in the occupied West Bank
yeah it's the occupied West Bank at the
moment uh you see a bit of an escalation
at the moment you see some rotation even
from some of the special forces units in
Gaza towards West Bank uh there's uh
sometimes they send forces uh uh
specialized forces from the Gaza Strip
to the West Bank and sometimes they
withdrew them from the West Bank to Gaza
so which means that we're going to see a
bit of more escalation on in both uh in
both places mainly because of these uh
settlements policies as you talked about
the escalation over the past several
months even post October the 7th we've
seen an increase in Israeli raids
attacks shootings of Palestinians in the
occupied West Bank yet there was no
hamus in the occupied West Bank the
attacks into Israel did not come from
the occupied West Bank yet Israel has
gone in yet again even more heavy-handed
than normal the issue was never Hamas uh
the issue is bigger than Hamas um even
in in the Gaza Strip at the moment we're
talking about six seven Palestinian
organizations in the West Bank Hamas has
some presence but it's not a dominant
presence um but there are other
organizations as well that uh launched
uh it was sort of an Insurgency in the
West Bank and isra the Israelis were
were more or less following a a very
harsh counterinsurgency policies in that
sense um and U if the settlement uh
continue if the these settlement
activities occupation activities
continues I think there will be more and
more uh resistance in that uh in that
direction and some of that resistance
will be violent and then we'll see
another cycle and we're seeing another
cycle at the moment it would just
escalate in terms of its intensity scale
and scope we should what happens early
again in the coming days and hours for
the moment Mar thanks for joining us
from The doart
Institute